---
layout: post
title:  "7.21.0 Released: Inline RegExp modifiers, TypeScript 5.0, and Decorators updates"
author: Babel Team
authorURL: https://twitter.com/babeljs
date:   2023-02-20 0:00:00
categories: announcements
share_text: "Babel 7.21.0 Released"
---

We just published Babel 7.21.0!

Babel now supports the [Inline RegExp modifiers](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-modifiers) proposal, the latest version of the [Decorators](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/) proposal, and the new [TypeScript 5.0](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-5-0/) syntax.

You can read the whole changelog [on GitHub](https://github.com/babel/babel/releases/tag/v7.21.0).

<!-- truncate -->

If you or your company want to support Babel and the evolution of JavaScript, but aren't sure how, you can donate to us on our [Open Collective](https://github.com/babel/babel?sponsor=1) and, better yet, work with us on the implementation of [new ECMAScript proposals](https://github.com/babel/proposals) directly! As a volunteer-driven project, we rely on the community's support to fund our efforts in supporting the wide range of JavaScript users. Reach out at [team@babeljs.io](mailto:team@babeljs.io) if you'd like to discuss more!

## Highlights

### Inline RegExp modifiers

The [Inline RegExp modifiers](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-modifiers) Stage 3 proposal allows you to enable or disable the `i`, `m` and `s` for _part_ of a regular expression, without affecting other parts.

You can use the `(?enableFlags:subPattern)` syntax to enable flags, `(?-disableFlags:subPattern)` to disable them, and `(?enableFlags-disableFlags:subPattern)` to enable some and disable others at the same time. You can think of non-capturing group `(?:subPattern)` as a special case where no flags are modified.

As an example, `/(?i:a)a/` matches an `a` ignoring its case, followed by a lowercase `a`:
```js title="JavaScript"
/(?i:a)a/.test("aa"); // true
/(?i:a)a/.test("Aa"); // true
/(?i:a)a/.test("aA"); // false
```

`/a(?-i:a)/i` is equivalent: the regular expression is case insensitive, expect for the second `a` which must be lowercase.

You can enable this proposal by installing the `@babel/plugin-proposal-regexp-modifiers` package and adding it to your Babel configuration:
```json title="babel.config.json"
{
  "presets": ["@babel/preset-env"],
  "plugins": [
    // Add this!
    "@babel/plugin-proposal-regexp-modifiers"
  ]
}
```

### Decorators updates

TC39, the committee that standardizes JavaScript, [recently approved](https://github.com/babel/proposals/issues/86#issuecomment-1414202318) some changes to the [Decorators proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/) based on feedback from the TypeScript team.
- Decorators on exported classes can now come either before or after the `export` keyword, but not in both places at the same time:
  ```js title="JavaScript"
  // valid
  @dec
  export class A {}

  // valid
  export @dec class B {}

  // invalid
  @dec
  export @dec class C {}
  ```
  This relaxed restriction aims at simplifying migration from the "_legacy_" decorators version, by reducing the syntactic differences.
- The methods on the `context.access` object provided to decorators expect the target object as their first parameter, rather than as their `this` receiver:
  ```js title="JavaScript"
  let accessX;

  function dec(desc, context) {
    accessX = context.access;
    return dec;
  }

  class A {
    @dec #x = 1;
  }

  // old semantics
  accessX.get.call(new A) === 1;

  // new semantics
  accessX.get(new A) === 1;
  ```
- `context.access` has a new `.has` method, to check if an object has the corresponding element. Continuing the example above:
  ```js title="JavaScript"
  // #x in new A
  accessX.has(new A) === true;
  ```

You can enable this new version of the decorators proposal by setting the `version` option of `"@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators"` to `"2023-01"`:

```json title="babel.config.json"
{
  "presets": ["@babel/preset-env"],
  "plugins": [
    ["@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators", { "version": "2023-01" }]
  ]
}
```

You can also try the new decorators proposal in the online Babel [REPL](https://babeljs.io/repl#?code_lz=GYVwdgxgLglg9mABAGzgczQUwE4AoCUiA3gFCKID0FiA8gA6ZICecI2A5AM6IBG2cAd045EEBJzjJMAGjKVqAQzAATRIwU8piAEQBRAG4LkIBVEzbEMJFAAWmRJxjLMPBdgCEcsWAlSAdKhouG5oIAC2jFCc-ADcJAC-JCQQyAqc3ACCxHIAAoFY2HIRtnDKBMSJ8UA&presets=stage-3&version=7.21.0), enabling the "Stage 3" (or lower) preset in the sidebar and choosing the `2023-01` decorators version.

### TypeScript 5.0

TypeScript 5.0, currently released as a beta prerelease, introduces two new syntactic features:
- `const` modifiers for type parameters
  ```ts title="TypeScript"
  function getName<const T extends { name: string }>(user: T): T["name"] {
      return user.name;
  }

  let name = getName({ name: "Babel" });
  //  ^? inferred type: "Babel", instead of just string.
  ```
- `export type *` declarations
  ```ts title="TypeScript"
  export type * from "./mod";
  export type * as ns from "./mod";
  ```
  Babel relies on this new syntax to safely remove the re-`export` declaration while compiling from TypeScript to JavaScript.

Additionally, TypeScript 5.0 introduces support for the standard Decorators proposal, that you can enable in Babel using `@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators`.

You can read more about the new TypeScript features in their [release post](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-5-0-beta/)!

### Experimental support for `.cts` configuration files

If you installed `@babel/preset-typescript`, or if you are running Babel using `ts-node`, you can now use `babel.config.cts` as a Babel configuration file written in TypeScript and CommonJS. You can read more about this in the [documentation](https://babeljs.io/docs/config-files#supported-file-extensions).

It's not possible yet to use `babel.config.ts` and `babel.config.mts` files, pending stabilization of the [Node.js ESM loader](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html#loaders) API.

### Source maps improvements

Source maps generated by Babel now support [Friendly Call Frames](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/devtools-modern-web-debugging/#friendly-call-frames), to show better names for trasformed functions in devtools.

Additionally, `@babel/generator` now accepts input source maps generated from other tools in the build pipeline: this allows to properly merge source maps even when using `@babel/generator` directly without `@babel/core`, and improves the general performance of source map merging in when using Babel.
