---
layout: post
title:  "2to3"
author: James Kyle
date:   2015-01-27 11:40:00
categories: announcements
share_text: "6to5: Announcing 2to3"
---

There has been tons of activity the past few weeks with 6to5. Thousands of people are downloading it every single day from all corners of the world. In the past month over 200 issues have been closed.

Today we are releasing v3.

> **Note:** 6to5 does not hold onto bug fixes or new features for major releases. Some of the features listed are from the later 2.x releases.

### Loose Mode

6to5 is very focused on being spec-compliant in everything that it does, but sometimes these specs require a lot of complexity around their implementation details that do not affect most code.

We’ve added Loose Mode for ignoring some of these non-essential details in order to create cleaner, smaller, and faster running output.

Before you use Loose Mode you should be aware that it does not line up with specs completely, so it might lead to incompatible code if you are not aware of these inconsistencies.

### Performance Improvements

In the past few weeks @gaeron has done some amazing work to improve 6to5’s compilation time by over 200%. These kinds of improvements are extremely important to us and we’re very happy to see such great contributions from community members.

### Playground: Mallet Operator

As seen in Ruby or CoffeeScript, the Mallet operator allows you to conditionally assign values based on their falsy-ness.

```js
a ||= b
```

will behave like

```js
a || (a = b)
```

This one comes to you from @jrdigewell. We encourage proposal authors to come forward with their ideas in order to get them implemented alongside all of the latest language and API features.

### selfContained

We’ve also introduced a new optional transformer that allows you to use generators and ES6 built-ins and methods seamlessly. These are automatically detected and aliased to core-js. This is great for libraries that do not want to pollute the global namespace.

> This replaces the `coreAliasing` and `includeRegenerator` transforms.

---

There are tons of new features and bug fixes that makes v3 an excellent release. Be sure to review them all in the [Changelog](https://github.com/6to5/6to5/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#300).

The future is looking bright.

<p class="text-right">— The 6to5 team</p>
